# Our Use in Project
- In our project we don't have too much focus on actuators. Although we do use some.
	- Vibration motor: We use a small LRA embedded in the master module, to create some haptic feedback, to tell the player when they lose the game.
	- Speaker: We have a speaker (linear actuator) in the disarm button module, to play sounds when the players win or lose the game. This could also be used more during the game, but we haven't had time to implement it fully.
	- Magnets: We used magnets in the bottom of the main box and the modules, to both hold the modules in place, but also to create some haptic feedback when the modules are put in place.

# Actuators
Actuators are responsible for moving a mechanism. They can be powered in multiple ways:
- Electronically.
- Hydraulics.
- Pneumatics.

## Types of Actuators
### DC Motors
These are the most simple type of actuators. They spin continuously when power is applied. You can control the speed of the motor by how much voltage is applied. If the power is reversed the motor spins the other way.

**ERM (Eccentric Rotating Mass) Actuators**
These are an extension to the DC motor, with a non-symmetric mass attached to the shaft. This can be used to create vibrations. These are commonly used in controllers for gaming console.

### Servo Motors
Servo motors are instructed where to turn, unlike a DC motor which just turns when power is applied. They have three wires, VCC, GND (just like the DC motor), but it also has a third wire to carry instructions.

### Motorized Potentiometers
These are just linear or rotational potentiometers with a DC motor attached. The motors aren't very powerful, but powerful enough to turn the potentiometer.

### Stepper Motors
These are very good for positional control. Stepper motors are controlled by incrementally stepping to the next position. They are commonly used in 3D-printers and CNC machines, to provide precise movement.

### Solenoids
Solenoids creates linear motion. They're basically a coil of wire with an iron shaft in the center, when the coil is given current, it creates a magnetic field and the shaft is pulled or pushed as a result. They have only two possible positions.

### LRA (Linear Resonant Actuators)
These can create different textures and intensities unlike the ERMs. They use electromagnets to move a mass linearly. They can be extremely strong, and are commonly used in smartphones today.

### Smart Materials
#### SMA (Shape-Memory Alloys)
SMAs and polymers are materials in which a deformation can be induced and recovered through temperature changes. They can also be called muscle wires.
To change their default shape, you have to heat them up to a very high temperature and change their shape. Then when heated up to a lower temperature, they will always go back to their default shape. This lower temperature can be achieved by applying some current through the material.
#### Piezo-Electric Actuators
These can create very localised tactile feedback. They can provide displacement very quickly, but with less kinetic energy compared to traditional vibration motor systems.

### Pneumatic Actuation
This is movement controlled by air pressure. 

### Force Feedback Devices
Force feedback devices serve two main purposes - to measure the positions and contact forces of the user's hand (and/or other body parts), and to display contact forces and positions to the user.
They are categorized according to the DOF (Degrees Of Freedom):
- 1 DOF: Steering wheels, hapkit.
- 2 DOF: joystick.
- 3 to 6 DOF: High-precision instruments (e.g. PHANToM).

### Magnets
You can use basic magnets to provide haptic feedback for the user. Electromagnets can be used to create more advanced feedback with magnets.

## Controlling Actuators
### H-Bridge
These are designed to drive a motor clockwise and anti-clockwise. These can be made with switches, relays and transistors or MOSFETS. Sometimes they're also built into a control board, so you don't have to make it yourself.
The choice of H-Bridge design depends on:
- Number of transistors.
- The type of layout.
- The number of control lines.
- The voltage of the bridge.

### PWM (Pulse-Width Modulation)
PWM speed control drives a series of ON/OFF pulses and varies the cycle speed. By changing the timing of the pulses the speed of the motor can be controlled. The longer the ON pulse the faster the motor will rotate.
For servo motors PWM controls the position of the motor. A pulse of 1ms will set it to 0 degrees, 1.5ms will set it to 90 degrees and 2ms will set it to 180 degrees.

## Power Considerations
Motors are quite power hungry. While a normal microcontroller can provide about $3.3V$, $4mA$ max from their pins, most motors use between $9-24V$, and draw $>1A$. This means that motors often needs a secondary power supply, also to not make noise in the microcontrollers circuit. GND should still be common.
