# Our Use in Project
- We use a total of 4 PCBs in our project, one for each module.
	- We found them to be more reliable than breadboard prototypes, but they still come with some problems.
	- When creating four different PCBs you're bound to make mistakes. But we learned from them (debugging pins).
	- It's hard to find what's wrong, if something is wrong with a PCB.
	- We used Fusion360 (Eagle) to design the PCBs.
	- We milled the PCBs in a copper plate laminated onto a substrate.

# PCB (Printed Circuit Board)
PCBs are highly reliable and compact circuits compared to using a breadboard. We make them from a copper plate, and removing copper between the lines that are the connections. They were created in 1936 by Paul Eisler and made available for commercial use in 1948.

## Surface Mount vs Through Hole
These are the two different methods of mounting components to a PCB.

### SMT (Surface Mounted Technology)
When mounting on the surface, no holes are need to be made in the PCB, which makes it both easier and cheaper to manufacture. It allows for denser layouts and often improves frequency response time.

### Through Hole
Components are mounted by putting the pins through holes on the board and soldering them on, it is necessary DIP (Dual Inline Package). It is easier to assemble by hand.

## Designing PCBs
To design PCBs it is easiest to use CAD-programs (Computer Aided Design), like Fusion360 (Eagle),KiCad and Fritzing. In this course we have used Fusion360.

Fusion360 have a Schematic side, with the schematic setup and a board layer, with the physical board layout. While creating the schematic we have used some libraries, which have most of the components we have used, like resistors, capacitors and crystals.

Once the schematic have been made, you turn it to the board side. On the board side you make the physical layout, so you place the components where you want them on the board. Once this is done, you can use autorouting to make Fusion360 route the board automatically. After this, you can go in and route it manually, if you're not satisfied. This can also be done to make the route easier to follow, and then easier to maintain.
### Board layout guidelines
- Avoid above 90 degrees turn when bending pathways.
- Make important node accessible, for debugging/attachment/reiterations.
- Leave approximately 5mm around the border of the board.
- Power supply leads should be at the edge of the board.
- Add polarity markings next to polarized components.
- Use writing on your board (we didn't do this, not too clever).
- CHECK FOR MIRRORING!
### Schematic guidelines
- Lowest voltage (GND) on the bottom, highest at the top.
- Information should flow from left to right (inputs at the left, outputs at the right).

## Additive and Subtractive Methods
**Subtractive methods:**
- CNC milling, removing unwanted material from a copper plate laminated on top of a dielectric board.

**Additive methods:**
- The pattern is electroplated onto a bare substrate.
- Uses much less material.
- Probably the future, using a normal inkjet printer.

### CNC Milling
This is probably the cheapest method of creating PCBs. It's a subtractive method of removing (milling), the routes into a copper sheet laminated on top of a dielectric board. It is also quite safe compared to other methods, because no chemicals are used.

### Etching
Etching removes unwanted copper with acids, unlike milling which removes it with a drill. You print the routes onto a copper plate, to stop those parts from being etched. Put the PCB into an acid tank, and taking it out once the unwanted copper has been removed (15-45 minutes). We don't use this method anymore, because of the chemicals.

## Board Materials
**Substrate:**
- Usually fiberglass.
- Flexible PCBs have a base made of high temperature plastic (e.g. Kapton).

**Copper layer:**
- Laminated to the substrate with heat and adhesive.

**Soldermask layer:**
- Gives the PCB its green color (or other colors).
- Insulates copper traces from contact with other metal, solder or other conductive bits.

**Silkscreen layer:**
- Adds letters, numbers or other symbols to the PCB.
- Usually white, but can be other colors.
