# The first app update
Saturday was the day of the full release, with version 1.2 that was accepted by Apple. Although I quickly found some big problems, with the Android version of the app (which have now been fixed). But it absolutely does feel good to be able to say that the full version is out, and all the work I'm doing from now, is to make the app better!


## The week's progress
Coming into a new week, where the app being release, it was a whole new feeling. What to do now? Well I fortunately already had some plans for what to do, plans which I already began last week...
The first thing being a rebate system with promotional codes, and another being implementing the ability to share a recording, directly from the recording app. Let's take a deeper look at this!

### Promotional codes and rebates
This system was more backend work than frontend, which wasn't what I expected to be totally honest. But it absolutely was a quite fun challenge to implement. The way I chose to do this, was by creating my own API's, both to create/remove a promotion and to get one. The way I've implemented it, makes me able to customize the promotions to my liking. I can make a promotion change the type of user, give free credits, and even both! I can also change how many time a promotion can be used, or when a promotion runs out (date).

When a user writes the code in the app, it calls an API which searches the backend for the codes, when it finds one, it will check if that user have already used the code. When it have found all of this information, it will return with a promotion element, which the app can read. The API will also add the user's identification, so that user can't use the promotion again. When the app receives that element, it will execute what's necessary to get the promotion. When this is done, the app will display a page, showing the rewards of the given code.

### Fixing the Android version
Fixing the issues that were with the Android version, that have been caused by me not testing too much on Android, wasn't an easy task. When developing an app for both Android and iOS, it's easiest to develop for iOS first and then port it to Android. This is something I thought I could do different, being an Android user, but I was wrong. It's so hard to develop for iOS, and so easy for Android, that you HAVE to develop for iOS first and then make that work on Android.

It was some major features that wasn't working on Android, making the app totally useless to say the least. Uploading a file, didn't work, android pay, didn't work and exporting a word document didn't work. Core app functionalities? YES. But these are (as far as I know) the past now.

### Sharing recordings 
This has been a feature on my todo list for quite some time, but now I finally have gotten around to do it! It isn't necessarily a must have feature, but it's something that makes the app much more accessible. Accessible, that's exactly what I'm going for, it's not only to make a boring task take less time, but also making the best AI tools accessible. If you have taken a look at this website (you probably have), you know it says "Making AI more accessible", this means that this have been a high priority to get when the MVP (Minimal Viable Product) was ready.
This feature should soon be available in the version 1.2.2, which will hopefully be coming in a couple of days!


## What's next?
Continuing to work on making the app do as much work for the user as possible, I will begin implementing a new "big" feature. This feature will be the ability to change the speaker labels, by giving names to the interviewer and interviewees. With this I will also give the ability to change who's in the green and white bubbles. This feature I myself see as an essential feature, to get the full potential of my current UI. Right now the UI is looking sharp, if I should say so myself, but it needs this last thing to make it functional too.

Apart from the developing of the functionalities of the app, I also need to sell the app's services. I can't keep working on an app that doesn't make me money. But this is the next big goal, I want to make my first sale before the end of march, maybe you could help me achieving this goal? ;)

I won't stop you.


## See you again next week!
A little short this week? Yes. Not much is happening, at least of what I can talk about, but I'm working on getting this app out to as many students in Denmark. Maybe this is something you could help me with? If it is, I would be more than happy to talk!
I hope keep doing what I'm doing, and I will hopefully see you again next week.

I will be glued to the screen this weekend, watching F1 and F2, hoping for a good result for K-Mag.

Have a good weekend!