
## Disposition

1. Testing
2. Unit testing
3. Positive and negative testing
4. Regression testing
5. JUnit
6. Assertion
7. Debugging


## Forklaringer

1. Testing
	1. Testing is done to find out if the code, eg. method, class or program, is working as intended.
2. Unit testing
	1. Unit testing is done to a piece of the application, eg. method or class, and not the whole application.
3. Positive and negative testing
	1. Positive testing means testing the things that we expect to work. Giving some inputs that should be legal, and not give an error.
	2. Negative testing means testing the things that we expect to give an error. Giving illegal inputs and check that it throws an error.
4. Regression testing
	1. Regression testing is rerunning tests that have previously passed, to check if changes to the program have introduced bugs.
5. JUnit
	1. JUnit can be used to do regression testing in Java programs. It is built into many Java IDE's.
	2. You create a new class called *ClassName*Test, and then create test methods for the corresponding class. Test methods should have an @Test annotation before the header.
	3. You can also create fixtures (to avoid code duplications) that creates a preset of variables used to test. A fixture method should have an @Before (or @BeforeEach in JUnit 5) annotation before the header.
6. Assertion
	1. An assertion states an expression that we expect to be true, if it's not the assertion fails and it indicates an error in the test.
7. Debugging
	1. Walkthrough
		1. Walkthrough is an activity of working through a segment of code line by line while observing changes of state and other behaviour of the application.
	2. Print statements
		1. You can debug some code quickly by placing print statements where you think the error is.
	3. Debuggers
		1. Debuggers can be used to find bugs in programs, by using step and step-into you can follow what happens line-by-line.
		2. By using peek in a stream, you can also debug them.


### Eksempler

```java
public class ClassTest {
	private Class testClass;

	@BeforeEach
	public void setUp() {
		testClass = new Class();
	}

	@Test
	public void testAddString() {
		String testString = "Hello World!";
		
		testClass.addString(testString);
		assertEquals(testString, testClass.getString());
	}
}
```
