
## Disposition

1. Analysis and design
2. Verb/noun-method
3. CRC cards
4. Scenarios
5. Class design
6. Documentation
7. Prototype
8. Software growth
9. Design patterns
10. Singleton


## Forklaringer

1. Analysis and design
	1. To design an application we must analyze the problem to then begin designing the application.
	2. To do this we can use the verb/noun-method to analyze the problem, and then use CRC cards to design the application.
2. Verb/noun-method
	1. To do the verb/noun-method, you first have to make a good description of the system you wan't to make. Then you should find ALL nouns and verbs in that description. The verbs should be set up with the corresponding nouns.
	2. The nouns will then give an approximation of what classes is needed. And the verbs will give an approximation of what methods the corresponding classes should have.
3. CRC cards
	1. CRC stands for Class/Responsibilities/Collaborators, and are physical cards that should hold information about the classes you need.
	2. You should write the class name in the top left, the class' responsibilities underneath that, and which other classes it will use on the right.
4. Scenarios
	1. Scenarios also referred to as use-cases, are an example of what activities the classes should carry out or support.
	2. It is recommended to do this in groups, where each person gets a couple of classes, to then out loud play through the scenario.
	3. While playing the scenario, you should write down on the CRC cards, what responsibilities and collaborations the classes have.
5. Class design
	1. When done playing through scenarios, you should have a decent idea of what classes you need.
	2. You should now write down in Java the classes and on a new set of CRC cards, play through the same exact scenarios, while focusing on finding the necessary methods and field variables for each class.
6. Documentation
	1. When you are ready with the class interfaces and method headers, you should begin to do the documentation for these.
7. Prototype
	1. When beginning to implement the classes, you will need to do prototyping, in order to test some classes that depend on others that haven't been implemented yet.
8. Models
	1. Multiple models exists for how software should be built, two of the most used are the Waterfall model and Iterative development
		1. Waterfall model: is when you follow the following steps to create a piece of software:
			1. Analysis of the problem
			2. Design of the software
			3. Implementation of the software components
			4. Unit testing
			5. Integrations testing
			6. Delivery of the system
		2. Iterative development: is when you go through the same step several times:
			1. Analysis
			2. Design
			3. Prototype
			4. Implementation
			5. Client-feedback
			6. Repeat
9. Design patterns
	1. Design patterns are used to describe a common pattern in software development.
	2. A design pattern should at least have the following:
		1. A name that can be used conveniently to talk about the pattern.
		2. A description of the problem that the pattern addresses, this can be split into sections as intent, motivation and applicability.
		3. A description of the solution, this often lists structure, participants and collaborations.
		4. The consequences of using the pattern, including results and trade-offs.
	3. Common design patterns:
		1. Decorator: It allows behavior to be added to an individual object, dynamically, without affecting the behavior of other objects from the same class.
		2. Factory method: it's creational design pattern that provides an interface for creating objects in a super class, but allows subclasses to alter the type of objects that will be created.
		3. Oberserver: it allows an object to publish changes to its state to other objects, known as observers, without making the observers depend on the object's class.
10. Singleton: It allows you to create only one instance of an object, as an example if you only need one compiler for a development environment.


### Eksempler

```java
//The singleton design pattern in Java type 1
public class Parser {
	private static Parser instance = new Parser();

	public static Parser getInstance() {
		return instance;
	}

	private Parser() { //The constuctor is private
		...
	}
	...
}

//The singleton design pattern in Java type 2
public enum Parser {
	INSTANCE;
	...
}
```
