
## Disposition

1. AWT and Swing
2. Components
3. Event handling


## Forklaringer

1. AWT and Swing
	1. AWT was introduced with the original Java API, and Swing was added later, but builds onto AWT. JavaFX is the newest, but we haven't learned about it.
	2. The AWT components is named Button, Frame and Menu, while Swing puts a J in front of the names: JButton, JFrame and JMenu.
2. Components
	1. The GUI is built up on components, these components are JFrame, JMenu, JButton etc.
3. Event handling
	1. To give the GUI the ability to react on the user's input, we use event handling.
	2. By adding event listeners to the GUI components, we can give function to menus or buttons in the GUI.
	3. Event handling are either done through the interface method `actionPerformed(ActionEvent e)`, or by using a lambda expression when adding the event listener.
4. Layouts
	1. Swing uses layout-managers to arrange the layout of components, each Container have an associated layout-manager.
	2. The most important layout-managers are FlowLayout, BorderLayout, GridLayout and BoxLayout.
		1. FlowLayout: Arranges all components from left to right an center them horizontally.
		2. BorderLayout: Arranges all components in their given position, Center, North, South, East or West. North and South will only scale in width, East and West will only scale in height, and Center will take the rest of the space.
		3. GridLayout: Arranges all components in a given grid, and gives them all the same size.
		4. BoxLayout: Lays out all components either vertically or horizontally, and does not resize the components.
	3. Layouts can be nested inside each other, to make more advanced GUI's.
5. Borders
	1. Borders are useful to improve the look of a GUI, used to create either empty space around a component, or give it something else around it.
		1. There are different borders: BevelBorder, CompoundBorder, EmptyBorder, EtchedBorder, TitledBorder.
6. Anonymous inner classes
	1. If an event listener isn't a functional interface (it has multiple abstract methods), then it cannot be implemented using a Lambda expression.
	2. If this is the case, you can use Adapter classes, and create anonymous inner classes for these.


### Eksempler

```java
//Creating a JFrame
private void makeFrame() {
	frame = new JFrame("ImageViewer");
	
	Container contentPane = frame.getContentPane();

	imagePanel = new ImagePanel();
	contentPane.add(imagePanel);

	frame.pack();
	frame.setVisible(true);
}
```

```java
//Anonymous inner classes
private void makeFrame() {
	...
	imagePanel = new ImagePanel();
	imagePanel.addMouseListener(new MouseAdapter() {
		public void mousePressed(MouseEvent e) { handleMousePressed(e); }
	});
}
```
